[RA-02 Ch05] Security Guidance: updated host & orchestrator sections (#2525)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_arch/kubernetes/chapters/chapter05.md

<p align="right"><img src="../figures/bogo_lsf.png" alt="scope" title="Scope" width="35%"/></p>

## Table of Contents

> - [5. Security Guidance](#5-security-guidance)

Reviewer: Please delete as it is already in the chapter heading

Author: Done

>   - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)

Reviewer: Please delete as there is a  section header for this

Author: Done

  - [5.1 Introduction](#51-introduction)
  - [5.2 Principles](#52-principles)
  - [5.3 Node Hardening](#53-node-hardening)
    - [5.3.1 Node hardening: Securing Kubernetes
      hosts](#531-node-hardening-securing-kubernetes-hosts)
    - [5.3.2 Restrict direct access to
      nodes](#532-restrict-direct-access-to-nodes)
    - [5.3.3 Vulnerability assessment](#533-vulnerability-assessment)
    - [5.3.4 Patch management](#534-patch-management)
  - [5.4 Securing Kubernetes orchestrator](#54-securing-kubernetes-orchestrator)
    - [5.4.1 Control network access to sensitive
      ports](#541-control-network-access-to-sensitive-ports)
    - [5.4.2 Controlling access to the Kubernetes
      API](#542-controlling-access-to-the-kubernetes-api)
    - [5.4.3 Use Transport Layer Security](#543-use-transport-layer-security)
    - [5.4.4 API Authentication, API

>       Authorization](#544-api-authentication-api-authorization)

Reviewer: We use British spelling
```suggestion
      Authorisation](#544-api-authentication-api-authorisation)
```

- Enable Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)

## 5.3 Node Hardening

> ### 5.3.1 Node hardening: Securing Kubernetes hosts 		

Reviewer: @ragashreeshekar Please also add the sub-sections you have created to the ToC.

> Security benchmarking

Reviewer: @ragashreeshekar Did you men to have "Security benchmarking" as a sub-header? If so, it needs to be before the second paragraph and should be bolded with a blank line before and after.

When an operating system or application is installed, it comes with default settings. Usually, all ports are open, and all application services are turned on. In other words, freshly installed assets are highly insecure.

> Ensure Kubernetes nodes are secure, hardened and configured correctly following well known security framework. Security benchmarks, for example CIS benchmarks are a set of configuration standards and best practices designed to help ‘harden’ the security of their digital assets. 

Reviewer: please provide a reference to the CIS benchmarks?
Minor typos
```suggestion
Ensure Kubernetes nodes are secure, hardened and configured correctly following well known security frameworks. Security benchmarks, for example, CIS benchmarks are a set of configuration standards and best practices designed to help ‘harden’ the security of their digital assets. 
```

### 5.3.2 Restrict direct access to nodes

> Restrict root/administrative access to Kubernetes nodes while avoiding direct access to nodes for operational activities including debugging, troubleshooting, and other tasks.

Reviewer: How do you restrict access or did you mean restrict users from gaining root/administrative privileges i.e. "least privilege"

Author: In my view, this is both.
1. In a PaaS, usually, the access to underlying hosts is not shared with the user, and in control of the provider. 
2. Even in the provider side, the root access is something to be used if and only if needed, can be done by creating a sudo user. 
Does this help?

### 5.3.3 Vulnerability assessment
Vulnerability assessments are a crucial part of IT risk management lifecycles. It helps in protecting systems and data from unauthorized access and breaches. Implement necessary vulnerability scanner tools (Ex: OpenVAS and many other opensource and commercial tools) to identify threats and flaws within the  infrastructure that represents potential risks.

### 5.3.4 Patch management 
Patch management is another key aspect of IT risk management lifecycle for security, compliance, uptime, feature enhancements and so on. Implement necessary patch management to ensure your environment is not susceptible to exploitation.
	
## 5.4 Securing Kubernetes orchestrator	

### 5.4.1 Control network access to sensitive ports

> Kubernetes clusters usually listen on a range of well-defined and distinctive ports which makes it easier identify the clusters and attack them. Hence it is highly recommended to configure authentication and authorization on the cluster and cluster nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes clusters usually listen on a range of well-defined and distinctive ports which makes it easy to identify the clusters and attack them. Hence, it is highly recommended to configure authentication and authorization on the cluster and cluster nodes.
```

Validation for submitted pods is performed by the API server before it writes
them to etcd, so malicious users writing directly to etcd can bypass many
security mechanisms e.g., PodSecurityPolicies.

Administrators should always use strong credentials from the API servers to
their etcd server, such as mutual auth via TLS client certificates, and it is
often recommended to isolate the etcd servers behind a firewall that only the
API servers may access.
    
### 5.4.6 Controlling access to the Kubelet
Kubelets expose HTTPS endpoints which grant powerful control over the node and
containers. By default Kubelets allow unauthenticated access to this API.
Production clusters should enable Kubelet authentication and authorization
    
### 5.4.7 Securing Kubernetes Dashboard 
The Kubernetes dashboard is a webapp for managing your cluster. It is not a
part of the Kubernetes cluster itself, it has to be installed by the owners of
the cluster. Thus, there are a lot of tutorials on how to do this.
Unfortunately, most of them create a service account with very high privileges.
This caused Tesla and some others to be hacked via such a poorly configured Kubernetes

> dashboard. (Reference: Tesla cloud resources are hacked to run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dashboard. ([Reference: Tesla cloud resources are hacked to run
```

> cryptocurrency-mining malware -

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cryptocurrency-mining malware](
```

> https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/02/tesla-cloud-resources-are-hacked-to-run-cryptocurrency-mining-malware/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/02/tesla-cloud-resources-are-hacked-to-run-cryptocurrency-mining-malware/))
```

- Enable Role-Based Access Control (RBAC)

## 5.3 Node Hardening
### 5.3.1 Node hardening: Securing Kubernetes hosts         
When an operating system or application is installed, it comes with default
settings. Usually, all ports are open, and all application services are turned
on. In other words, freshly installed assets are highly insecure.

Ensure Kubernetes nodes are secure, hardened and configured correctly following
well known security frameworks. Security benchmarks, for example, CIS benchmarks

> are a set of configuration standards and best practices designed to help‘harden’

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
are a set of configuration standards and best practices designed to help ‘harden’
```

the security of their digital assets. 

### 5.3.2 Restrict direct access to nodes
Restrict root/administrative access to Kubernetes nodes while avoiding direct
access to nodes for operational activities including debugging, troubleshooting,
and other tasks.

### 5.3.3 Vulnerability assessment
Vulnerability assessments are a crucial part of IT risk management lifecycles.

> It helps in protecting systems and data from unauthorized access and breaches.

Reviewer: typo and some change
```suggestion
The mitigation of the vulnerabilities helps in protecting systems and data from unauthorized access and breaches.
```

> The mitigation of the vulnerabilities helps in protecting systems and data from unauthorized access and breaches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mitigation of the vulnerabilities helps in protecting systems and data from unauthorised access and breaches.
```

> Implement necessary vulnerability scanner tools (Ex: OpenVAS and many other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement necessary vulnerability scanner tools (e.g., OpenVAS and many other
```

opensource and commercial tools) to identify threats and flaws within the
infrastructure that represents potential risks.

> 

Reviewer: Software vulnerabilities are typically fixed through patches.

Author: Agreed

### 5.3.4 Patch management 
Patch management is another key aspect of IT risk management lifecycle for

> security, compliance, uptime, feature enhancements and so on. Implement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
security, compliance, uptime, feature enhancements, etc. Implement
```

necessary patch management to ensure your environment is not susceptible to
exploitation.
    
## 5.4 Securing Kubernetes orchestrator 

### 5.4.1 Control network access to sensitive ports
Kubernetes clusters usually listen on a range of well-defined and distinctive
ports which makes it easy to identify the clusters and attack them. Hence, it is

> highly recommended to configure authentication and authorization on the cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
highly recommended to configure authentication and authorisation on the cluster
```

and cluster nodes.

> Here is an overview of the default ports used in Kubernetes. Make sure that your

Reviewer: Can you add a reference to the source? Thanks

Author: Sure. Is there a format to add reference? please suggest

Reviewer: @ragashreeshekar Other chapters have references but the format is as per the example below:

reference text enclosed in square brackets and the closing bracket immediately followed the reference source "[reference-text](reference link)":

[45-networking-solutions](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/ref_arch/kubernetes/chapters/chapter04.md#45-networking-solutions)

> network blocks access to ports and consider limiting access to the Kubernetes

Reviewer: block access to which ports?

Author: Updated

API server except from trusted networks.

**Master node(s):**

| Protocol | Port Range | Purpose                 |
| -------- | ---------- | ----------------------- |
| TCP      | 6443-      | Kubernetes API Server   |
| TCP      | 2379-2380  | etcd server client API  |
| TCP      | 10250      | Kubelet API             |
| TCP      | 10251      | kube-scheduler          |
| TCP      | 10252      | kube-controller-manager |
| TCP      | 10255      | Read-Only Kubelet API   |

**Worker nodes:**

| Protocol | Port Range  | Purpose               |
| -------- | ----------- | --------------------- |
| TCP      | 10250       | Kubelet API           |
| TCP      | 10255       | Read-Only Kubelet API |
| TCP      | 30000-32767 | NodePort Services     |

### 5.4.2 Controlling access to the Kubernetes API

> The Kubernetes platform is controlled using API requests and as such is the

Reviewer: Does the "is" in "... and as such is ..." refers to the platform or APIs? Neither by themselves is "the first line of defense" but more like a target for attackers. The "." is missing after "concern".

Author: Kubernetes platform is API driven, and these APIs are the first items to be secured in order to defend against the attackers.

Reviewer: @ragashreeshekar Sorry, I should have been clearer. The sentence is confusing and it is not clear if the "first line of defense" is referring to the platform or the APs?  Also, I think the APis are the first to be attacked and we need mechanisms to defend against that.

first line of defence against attackers. Controlling who has access and what
actions they are allowed to perform is the primary concern

>     

Reviewer: Suggest that the following reference be added to the text above "https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/controlling-access/"

Author: Surely, Is there a format to add reference, please suggest

### 5.4.3 Use Transport Layer Security

> Communication in the cluster between services should be handled using TLS,

Reviewer: This section is a repeat of what follows later with slight differences. In this para it is implied that the use of TLS for intr-cluster communications is sometimes neglected but later it is stated that the use of TLS for such communications is the default.

Author: Updated

encrypting all traffic by default. This, however, is often overlooked with the
thought being that the cluster is secure and there is no need to provide
encryption in transit within the cluster.

Advances in network technology, such as the service mesh, have led to the
creation of products like LinkerD and Istio which can enable TLS by default
while providing extra telemetry information on transactions between services.

Kubernetes expects that all API communication in the cluster is encrypted by
default with TLS, and the majority of installation methods will allow the
necessary certificates to be created and distributed to the cluster components.
Note that some components and installation methods may enable local ports over
HTTP and administrators should familiarize themselves with the settings of each
component to identify potentially unsecured traffic.

> ### 5.4.4 API Authentication, API Authorization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 5.4.4 API Authentication, API Authorisation
```

Secure all connections to a Kubernetes Cluster. Adopt the following security
authentication mechanisms:

> * Configure user roles and access levels to provide segregation of duties (RBAC)

Reviewer: What is the change in the following bullets?

Author: Not much, the markdown link must've updated the format.

* Use multi-factor authentication for all administrative access
* Use token-based or certificate-based service and session authentication
  mechanisms
* Integrated with existing identity management platforms e.g SAML, AD, etc. for
  access control

### 5.4.5 Restrict access to etcd and encrypt contents within etcd
etcd is a critical Kubernetes component which stores information on state and
secrets, and it should be protected differently from the rest of your cluster.
Write access to the API server's etcd is equivalent to gaining root on the
entire cluster, and even read access can be used to escalate privileges fairly
easily.

The Kubernetes scheduler will search etcd for pod definitions that do not have a
node. It then sends the pods it finds to an available kubelet for scheduling.
Validation for submitted pods is performed by the API server before it writes
them to etcd, so malicious users writing directly to etcd can bypass many

> security mechanisms - e.g. PodSecurityPolicies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
security mechanisms e.g., PodSecurityPolicies.
```

> Administrators should always use strong credentials from the API servers to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Administrators should always use strong credentials for the API servers to
```

Author: Update. Please review

Reviewer: @ragashreeshekar Sorry I don't see a change. The way I read it this sentence seems to suggest that the API server is the source of the "strong credentials". Firstly the sentene needs to be broken up. Secondly, I think in the first part you are trying to say that for all platform components, such as API server, etcd server, etc., the administrator must utilize strong credentials.

their etcd server, such as mutual auth via TLS client certificates, and it is
often recommended to isolate the etcd servers behind a firewall that only the
API servers may access.
    
### 5.4.6 Controlling access to the Kubelet
Kubelets expose HTTPS endpoints which grant powerful control over the node and
containers. By default Kubelets allow unauthenticated access to this API.
Production clusters should enable Kubelet authentication and authorization
    
### 5.4.7 Securing Kubernetes Dashboard 
The Kubernetes dashboard is a webapp for managing your cluster. It it is not a
part of the Kubernetes cluster itself, it has to be installed by the owners of

> the cluster. Thus, there are a lot of tutorials on how to do this.

Reviewer: Why "thus"

Author: Since it is not a part of the standard Kubernetes installation, it's not covered as part of the official docs. The community has created a lot of materials, each in it's own way and the intent is to highlight all methods may not be secure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the cluster; a number of tutorials show how to do this.
```

> Unfortunately, most of them create a service account with very high privileges.

Reviewer: what are "very high privileges"?

Author: Updated, please review

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, most of them create a service account with unnecessary access rights.
```

> This caused Tesla and some others to be hacked via such a poorly configured K8s

Reviewer: suggest not use of the acronym "k8s" as in this document the full name is typically being used

Author: Done

dashboard. (Reference: Tesla cloud resources are hacked to run
cryptocurrency-mining malware -
https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2018/02/tesla-cloud-resources-are-hacked-to-run-cryptocurrency-mining-malware/)

> To prevent attacks via the dashboard, you should follow some tips:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent attacks via the dashboard, you should follow some best practices:
```

    
* Do not expose the dashboard without additional authentication to the public.
  There is no need to access such a powerful tool from outside your LAN
* Turn on RBAC, so you can limit the service account the dashboard uses

> * Do not grant the service account of the dashboard high privileges

Reviewer: what are "high" privileges

Author: Updated, please review

> * Grant permissions per user, so each user only can see what he is supposed to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Grant permissions per user, so each user can only access what they are supposed to
```

>   see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  access
```

> * If you are using network policies, you can block requests to the dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If using network policies, block requests to the dashboard
```

  even from internal pods (this will not affect the proxy tunnel via kubectl
  proxy)
* Before version 1.8, the dashboard had a service account with full privileges,
  so check that there is no role binding for cluster-admin left.
* Deploy the dashboard with an authenticating reverse proxy, with multi-factor

>   authentication enabled. This can be done with either embeded OIDC id_tokens or

Reviewer: OIDC -- first use acronym

>   using Kubernetes Impersonation. This allows you to use the dashboard with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  using Kubernetes Impersonation. This allows the use of the dashboard with the
```

  user's credentials instead of using a privileged ServiceAccount. This method
  can be used on both on-prem and managed cloud clusters.

## 5.5 Use Namespaces to Establish Security Boundaries
Namespaces in Kubernetes is the first level of isolation between components. It
is easier to apply security controls (Network Policies, Pod policies, etc.) to
different types of workloads when deployed in separate Namespaces.

## 5.6 Separate Sensitive Workload
To limit the potential impact of a compromise, it is recommended to run

> sensitive workloads on a dedicated set of machines. This approach reduces the

Reviewer: I think we use the term "nodes" not "machines"

Author: Done

## 5.11  Run-Time Security
The following are recommended best practices for container run-time:

> - Integrate run-time processes to Security Information and Event Monitoring

Reviewer: why this change?

Author: Lint recommendations to wrap each line at 80 chars, I have also observed this is followed in this project, hence the change

  (SIEM)
- Use container-aware run-time defence tools

> - Ensure all running cloud native applications are from secure and verified

Reviewer: why this change?

Author: Lint recommendations to wrap each line at 80 chars, I have also observed this is followed in this project, hence the change
